hello welcome back to another video i
hope you're having a lovely day so far
in today's video we're going straight in
with five gym mistakes you should avoid
to see results quicker there's no better
time as i know a lot of people are going
to be starting
the gym in like say january time for
either the first time or maybe going
back
to the gym the first time in a while or
simply if you've just been kind of like
struggling
i guess as a beginner in the gym knowing
where to start and struggling
with confidence and when it comes to
everything so i've got you covered
in this video these are my five biggest
things
that i have personally made the mistake
of and i just feel like
will be super useful to share i remember
when i first started out like i used to
get really conscious about like not
knowing what i was doing and i was i
felt like the whole room was staring at
me when i first started out training
and i think you just got to remember
like everyone was once a beginner and
whoever is like you might be comparing
yourself to
was also in your exact same shoes and
eventually in no time you will just
learn the basic moves and stuff and your
confidence will just grow from there
i think the main thing is just don't
like give up too soon starting with
number one biggest gym mistake i made
was not warming up or doing any form of
like muscle activation this isn't just
for beginners
also for people say if you're like short
on time or you're you're wanting to get
a really quick session in a fresh
efficient efficient session if you're
just wanting to get in and out of the
gym you're
you know on a short schedule you've got
work to get to or whatever
like it is so tempting just to be like
right we'll dive straight in
when in actual fact like your body's not
warmed up your muscles aren't
engaged and you're not going to have an
efficient workout you're really risking
yourself
getting injured which would prolong like
your training in the future
on a whole so it's so important like
just to get your heart rate up
and pump in before you even think about
jumping straight into your reps and sets
so for your warm-ups you just want to
make sure you're including some dynamic
stretches
to get your joints your muscles your
tissues
primed for your workout that will get
your blood pumping and you will get
warm as well i think that's the most
important thing in winter like
just think of like how cars like if you
leave them just sat there for
years it's going to be sort of rusty to
start like your body is just exactly the
same like if you've just
got out of bed in the morning and you've
been sleeping stationary all night or
whatever like
you can't expect your body just to
perform at its highest like you want to
make sure
it is warm and running so number two is
sticking it to cardio in order to grow
your glutes and
muscle on a hole that is not going to
happen like muscle does not grow
by doing cardio you need some form of
weight resistance training
in there to grow any form of muscle this
is something i did for like a long time
like i'm not talking like a month like i
did this for a long time
i was basically on the stair master
doing some like
donkey kicks of some kind thinking that
that was going to grow
my glutes it's the biggest waste of time
do please do not do that i mean it's a
good like activation
but not going to get me any form of
glute gains whatsoever
i have done a whole video on just my
whole fitness journey over on my youtube
channel i'll make sure that is linked so
strength or resistance training is
actually a better option
opposed to cardio when it comes to
exercise for
fat loss or body recomposition goals
strength training builds lean muscle
adding more muscle means raising your
energy expenditure which is basically
the number of calories
you burn just at a rest yeah so in a
nutshell that is a takeaway
from sort of like cardio versus weights
for say
body recomposition goals number three is
not focusing on breathing which might
sound ridiculous but honestly
next the like the next gym session you
do just
pay more attention to your like
breathing something i have to remind
myself of
every single session because it can be
so easy when you're so wrapped up or
like
in the zone you've got your music in
you've got everything going
and you just kind of forget to breathe
so if you're a beginner and you're
feeling a bit anxious and nervous in the
gym
it can be so easy just to forget to
breathe properly when you are
before like when you are lifting weights
which is not going to be at all helpful
and the reason why this problem is
because it decreases your blood flow
back to your heart you know that weird
like
dizzy lightheaded feeling that you can
sometimes get so if you're exercising
i've definitely experienced that many
times so that's when there's a drop
in blood pressure and a reduced blood
flow to your brain
when you get that weird feeling you know
how overwhelming it can be you know and
you're constantly thinking of like wait
should i be inhaling exhaling when i'm
at an eccentric or concentric phase or
you don't need to over complicate things
if it is going to be overwhelming just
make sure you focus on
maintaining a steady like breath
throughout every
movement moving on to number four
hands i have a bit of my hands like a
bit of a yellow number four
is not tracking anything like what gets
measured gets managed and i try apply
that to as much as like my whole life to
be honest as i can
don't get me wrong i've dipped in and
out like the amount of time and
things like that where i haven't tracked
anything but i would really say um you
have much
more efficient workouts um
actual proper results i think most
people have
like had this happen but say if you've
maybe
lost weight gained weight and you don't
actually know how like how it happened
or whatever which
can be so tricky i did that when i was
like when i was younger i remember
losing a load of weight and
my friends were like what have you been
doing and i didn't really know because i
wasn't focused on it which is absolutely
fine
super helpful just to have a slight sort
of understanding of like
why you have lost weight or gained
weight or gained muscle
i try and make sure i'm sort of
accountable i got the
like sort of best results i've achieved
um from china cut was simply just by
knowing
my macro distribution and being
accountable for my workouts so
tracking my workouts and just having an
actual
understanding and keeping myself
accountable to what i was doing daily
um so that in the future say if i want
to do another cut next year or whatever
um i can just go back to what
worked for me this year and sort of like
obviously tailor it a bit more
and the same with your workouts and
stuff like you can be you know say if
you're someone who's super dedicated
to putting the time in the gym but
you're not really holding yourself
accountable for the weights you're
lifting each week and you're not
increasing them each week like
that's gonna be difficult to see results
and progression
from there so i'll just say record as
much as you can obviously make sure
you're in like that healthy minds
mindset and headspace where you're
comfortable to do that i'm not advising
anyone
who's not at that place so i would say
definitely start by taking some before
pictures just in the mirror or something
or
if someone could take a picture for you
whatever you're comfortable with
um so say if you're a complete beginner
and you want to start going to the gym i
would definitely say
it's so good to have a plan in place
that way when you're going into the gym
you know what you're doing
you feel much more comfortable and
confident and you just go in
get your session done sit down one day
and
just work out how much time you want to
spend each week like how many sessions
if
you have never really set foot in the
gym i wouldn't over face yourself
expecting yourself to go
five days a week if it's something
that's not being part of your routine
you want to make it something that's
enjoyable make it part of your lifestyle
and something more long-term rather than
just like a quick fix
so i would just be realistic and you
know
start with maybe two to three sessions
see how you go
make sure you're enjoying it and have a
plan like plan out each session
i like to make sure i've got my workouts
planned i know exactly each week what
i'm doing
and i'm calculating tracking my workouts
each time and the weights i'm lifting
and things like that
of course this is never set in stone
it's not like i'm a
strict bikini athlete or anything like
that if one day i really don't fancy
doing what i have planned i'll just mix
it up like it's not that deep
and doesn't ever need to be so
regimented and
fixed in stone because life just yeah
you know and you just want to make sure
you actually enjoy what you're doing and
for me it's so much a part of my routine
now that i feel really strange if i
don't sort of
go to the gym the same goes for the
nutritional side of things and i would
say the most effective way to gather an
understanding of like what's in food is
throughout from
tracking your nutrition i use
myfitnesspal i will also
pop into a video where i've sort of
explained macros and things like that
um so you can watch that which is a bit
more in depth so when you're starting
anything new you do want to know
where you're starting from so that you
can see way of progression
where my progression progressing um
where might need changes
and just where to go from there really a
bit of hair keeps coming in front of my
face doesn't it looks like i've got like
a short bob got some bangs recently
number four
kind of goes in to the final one which
by the way i'm just looking at my laptop
i made some notes
of course i didn't want to miss anything
number five which is just
overwhelming yourself now we all do a
bit of this feel like as a beginner
i know i did i honestly thought or maybe
if i'm
doing my donkey kicks on the stepper i'm
gonna grow
a massive bottom bottom
in six weeks or something or probably
less it's probably two weeks and when i
did first start out
i wasn't consistent with my goals like
one week i wanted a kim k massive
bum the next week i didn't want big
legs and i wanted abs and it was just
like flipping all the time and i don't
think i really knew what i want but i
was a bit lost
in life at the time anyway set a goal
make sure it's actually for you
not for your boyfriend
or to fit in or whatever else just make
sure you actually want that goal set it
goal isn't going to keep you motivated
as it is like
i think it's a mixture of so many
different things like just an example
imagine saying
i'm gonna work out six days this week
i've never worked out in my life i'm
gonna go on a run every night
day two you're literally like this
workout life
is not for me i think that way you're
just gonna sky yourself as well like
i've done that many times not with
workouts but with other things you're
like just going all in
and then gets a few days and i'm just
like oh my god i never want to do that
again
and then you kind of like lose a bit of
confidence in yourself because you think
oh god like i thought i was going to do
that and
yeah i just wouldn't fall into that one
so break big things down into small
steps and it's all about the little wins
i think with any sort of like weight
loss or muscle growth
these things take time and consistency
you're breaking that massive goal of
yours into smaller
more achievable steps but nevertheless
that are still going to get you there so
you want to increase your squat weight
maybe 2kg each week would be
surprised i love performance goals over
anything i find them so empowering and
motivating and it's so nice feeling
yourself like gets
getting stronger in those areas i
mentioned in an instagram caption this
week just how like
set yourself like little goals like
literally waking up five
or ten minutes earlier on a morning just
to actually set your intention for the
day rather than saying i'm going to get
a
half four every morning i'm used to
getting up at eight kind of thing
this is obviously just i'm just showing
what's like worked for me and i find
genuinely has like transformed my life
just by breaking things down into
smaller
like more achievable steps and i didn't
want to go on loads into you guys
wanting to get straight to the point
nothing that you ever do is a mistake
like you want to make sure you're
challenging yourself you're bound to
make mistakes there's going to be
there's probably loads more mistakes i
could have listed
and these are just a few that i feel
like would be so useful if you are
starting out i really hope you enjoyed
it
i'd love you to stick around by
subscribing and making sure you've liked
this video
any of the more like informative videos
you would like to see as well
just pop them in the comments and i'll
make sure i get them filmed
and yeah i'm sending all my love to you
yeah